## Ethics - Vega Carlson

### Introduction to Ethics (Video 1)

In this introduction, the IEEE code of ethics is gone through at a high level, and I felt it necessary to look them up and I immediately take issue with one point: `4. to avoid unlawful conduct in professional activities` - the law is not always ethical, and I *will* break it when I disagree with it's purpose or implementation.

### Found Money (Videos 2 & 3)

In the scenario where the store clerk has unintentionally given us our money back with change we're asked "What would you do?" - In this particularly scenario, I would give the money back right away because I can't know to what extent the cashier's livelihood depends on my action; however, I think this question is actually a bit to easy. If it were a self checkout and an item just didn't get rung up, I'm absolutely not going back. Similarly for the bank issue, if it's a mistake of a larger organization - the example given is of multiple millions of dollars, which implies it took multiple people seeing it - then a mistake of a larger organization in my favor is just the cost of them not having better internal checks and provides incentive for them to improve.

### Defective Chips (Videos 4 & 5)

Immediately with this video, the issues with defective chips made me think of how in '94 Intel did [recall](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pentium_FDIV_bug#:~:text=In%20December%201994,%20Intel%20recalled,replacement%20of%20the%20flawed%20processors.%22) a large number of processors but then with the [Meltdown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pentium_FDIV_bug#:~:text=In%20December%201994,%20Intel%20recalled,replacement%20of%20the%20flawed%20processors.%22) and [Spectre](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pentium_FDIV_bug#:~:text=In%20December%201994,%20Intel%20recalled,replacement%20of%20the%20flawed%20processors.%22) bugs the response was less extreme, despite the massive security ramification and impact to speeds. The video also goes into counterfeit chips a bit, which is a real problem in the synthesizer community I'm in, with either fake or salvage chips being sold as new old stock of the actual sought after chip. This is to say, this issue has effected me on two fronts in reality already, albeit I haven't been the one to make the unethical call to allow them to go out. At the end of the day, it really is a question of QA testing probabilities, bad chips will go out no matter what, but not test each batch, have random sampling, etc in place is ridiculous just from a customer trust perspective. The brand will be known for being dodgy, so looking at it entirely from cost is an incorrect assumption from the get go. Furthermore, it's not like a manger suggesting to do this would be unaware of the implications of what he or she is saying, so asking "How should the engineer present his case?" is already a weird place to go. The engineer should make it clear why that's wrong from the get-go (cost of human life, litigation, etc.) but the manager is most certainly already aware and when he or she insists, the engineer should go to the manager's manager. If going up the food chain doesn't yield a change of heart, then a change of employer is due. It's not as if there's not a high demand for experienced engineers. 

Also, while the scenario goes to the extreme with aviation, it's not as if being a mundane consumer product changes matters much- if a kids toy can bust into flames that's no less of an issue.

When Dr. Chen mentioned how sometimes fraudulent chips are made by refinishing and covering the original id numbers, I thought about something else that bothers me: it's really equally unethical to hide the numbers on finished products to prevent reverse engineering. It's anti right-to-repair and can deprive advanced users from being able to work on what they've purchased. To me doing so is no more ethical then selling fraudulent chips.

We're then asked what the responsibility is of the supplier going down the chain and the implications for foreign policy should be. As a short answer I'd say, it depends and it depends. If it's for military application, then the product should go though extensive testing at each stage. It seems unlikely to me that these chips would not at least be somewhat passing as clones, as most clone chips do, and were failing on an edge case- meaning it's entirely possible the original provider had no idea the chips were fraudulent and, depending on multiple factors, would have no way of testing them without it being reported that the fraudulent chips fail at this edge case. If someone is intentionally deceiving you and you don't catch it, should you be responsible for forwarding that deceit? I think unless you had reason to be suspicious, the answer is no. On the other hand, if you making something that human lives will depend on, you should always check everything, making no assumptions. The provider of chips may not even know the end purpose, especially if it's military, so they have no reason to do that level of testing. As for the foreign policy implications: 

* We've historically over enforced before causing small businesses to be unable to source legitimate parts
* We don't have nearly the same level of domestic chip manufacturing anyway
* It's not like we'd listen to China telling us we should put an Engineer behind bars for doing the same thing
* At risk of a slippery slope argument: What if china said we should be guilty if we sell them chips that let citizens bypass the Great Firewall?

### Plagiarized Paper (Video 6)

I find pretty much any discussion of plagiarism of papers in academics in regards to ethics laughable given the lack of ethics in the [publishing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Predatory_publishing) and just how many academic articles are [fake](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ras_VYgA77Q). Still, stealing a paper is definitely wrong. I just didn't think was something that needed to be mentioned for the thousandth time in my college career. I think it makes more sense to talk about plagiarism in regards to IP theft and obvious clones of hardware as competing products, but that's not what this video was about.

The question asked is "Are the universities guilty for not punishing those responsible?" I'd say they're guilty, but not for not punishing them, but for putting them in a situation where the had to contribute the academic paper machine and *Publish or Perish*.

The video also asks if I'd want a professor that has violated ethical principals.

Some of the people who have taught me the most have gone to jail for hacking. One of them has a [My Little Pony themed Résumé](https://pjreddie.com/static/Redmon%20Resume.pdf). One of my favorite Ted Talks is from [a former Neo-Nazi](https://www.ted.com/talks/christian_picciolini_my_descent_into_america_s_neo_nazi_movement_and_how_i_got_out?language=en). I don't care if a professor has violated some ethics rules as long as they have a good reason- which I'll take a bet is, as previously mentioned, Publish or Perish, and that they had a longer term project or something which they actually cared about. Things aren't that black and white.

### Challenger (Videos 7 - 10)

I find the Challenger situation complicated. They knew the risks, and while, yes, the did ignore one warning, there's a point in any engineering project where you just have to say "We need to launch". I mean, what other concerns, other than the O-rings, were raised that were still in an unknown state when that launch happened? I get the quote about "When are we supposed to launch, April?" after the fact, when so many died, sounds reckless, but frankly, I agree with the sentiment. You can't put things off forever and over-engineer everything. You can never be 100% confident. Hindsight is 20/20 and I can say that either as an engineer or manager I'd do something differently, but I don't think anyone else saw it any other way either.

Dr. Chen also asks what is the value of human life. I'm not sure, but I suspect somebody at DuPont (Teflon), Monsanto, Nestle, Facebook (erm, 'Meta'), Clearview AI, Amazon, Google, and Foxconn could all come to a roughly equal dollar figure.