# G165 Minutes 21.09.24

**Attending:** Vega Carlson, Kaleb McQuillan, Reid Zimmerman, Cole Sirokman

---

**What you've done:**


Vega:

- [x] UI storyboarding, high level block diagram of entire system - by Friday, September 24th 2021

Kaleb:

- [x] Breadboard the simulated envelope generator - by Friday, September 24th 2021

Reid:

- [x] Connect Kaleb's envelope generator to existing snare circuit - by Friday, September 24th 2021

Cole:

- [x] Get Audio out from Bridge'd T-Oscilators and test sound - by Friday, September 24th 2021

---

## Minutes

3:40 Kaleb learned how to use a markdown editor. Started the meeting, and marked what was finished in the last week. Talked about what needed to be done. 

3:45 Talked about action items for the next week. Reid and Cole complained about power systems. Talked about problems with capacitors and parts we need. 

3:50 Things we need: 
1.  Reid needs 100nF capacitor (non-electrolytic)
2. Cole needs breadboard wires 
3. Vega just got the Picos and soldered parts onto them
4. Vega needs the screen for the Pi, but an external display works as a substitute for now
We also started an email chain for the group. 

3:55 Talked about the external lectures that the group would attend. Talked about security of various electronic devices. Stripped some wires for the base drum circuit.

4:00 Talked about classes and finished the meeting. Clean up. 




## Action Items

Vega:

- [ ] Get some data from the Pico to the Pi - by Friday, October 1st 2021

Kaleb:

- [ ] Breadboard a couple of VCA iterations, potentially connect them to the envelope generator and test. - by Friday, October 1st 2021

Reid:

- [ ] Refine the snare circuit to make it sound better - by Friday, October 1st 2021

Cole:

- [ ] Clean up the base drum circuit to reduce noise distortion. - by Friday, October 1st 2021


## Timeline

## Wk 1 - Aug 27

- [x] Basic project idea & outline
- [x] Get group on the same page about how a drum machine works

## Wk 2 - Sep 3

- [x] Project approval
- [x] Get analog circuit simulation working
- [x] Get at least one module simulated

## Wk 3 - Sep 10

- [x] Picking specific modules
  - [x] Sounds
  - [x] Effects
- [ ] Simulations of some drums

## Wk 4 - Sep 17

- [ ] ~~Order basic parts that we're certain on~~

  > Vega has most of these parts on hand

- [x] Simulation of half of the drum modules

## Wk 5 - Sep 24

- [ ] ~~Simulation of other half of drum modules~~
- [ ] Half of drum modules breadboarded
- [ ] Basic mock up of UI
  - [ ] Sequencer
  - [ ] Midi clocking

## Wk 6 - Oct 1

- [ ] Simulation of effect modules

## Wk 7 - Oct 8

- [ ] Protoboard all drum modules

## Wk 8 - Oct 15

- [ ] Protoboard all effect module

## Wk 9 - Oct 22

- [ ] Protoboard sequencer
- [ ] Make PCBs for module edge connectors

## Wk 10 - Oct 29

- [ ] Basic sequencer functionality
- [ ] Finalize bus connections (power, data, trigger, etc.)
  - [ ] sources
  - [ ] effects

## Wk 11 - Nov 5

- [ ] Effect bus functionality
  - [ ] Mixing
- [ ] Sequencer functionality continued

## Wk 12 - Nov 12

- [ ] PCB design of drum modules

## Wk 13 - Nov 19

- [ ] PCB design of effect modules

## Wk 14 - Nov 26

- [ ] PCB design of Sequencer
- [ ] PCB design of Mainboard
- [ ] Order PCBs

## Wk 15 - Dec 3

- [ ] Sequencer software Continued

## Wk 16 - Dec 10

- [ ] Sequencer software continued 

**end of semester**

----
