# G165 Minutes 21.09.08

**Attending:** Vega Carlson (Virtually), Kaleb McQuillan, Reid Zimmerman, Cole Sirokman

---

**What you've done:**

Vega:

- [x] Start looking into module options - by Friday, September 3rd 2021

  > Module selection - both sound generation and effects - are done. See `DrumSelection.md` and `EffectSelection.md` in the github repo. Also started figuring out what would be needed for the sequencer and the buses.

Kaleb:

- [x] Bass drum module research, finding a circuit to simulate - by Friday, September 3rd 2021

  > Looked into how a lot of the circuits work, mostly the bridged-T oscillator. Got the oscillator simulated, but not the envelope- started looking into designs for envelopes, using OpAmps mostly, in the hope to not just make an 808 clone.

Reid:

- [x] Trying out simulation software, finding what works best - by Friday, September 3rd 2021

  > Tried Multisim, started moving to KiCad for simulation. Still a bit unsure of what's best, but a working 808 bass drum has been made

Cole:

- [x] Bass drum module research, finding a circuit to simulate - by Friday, September 3rd 2021

  > Also simulated the 808 Bass Drum in Multisim, for sake of understanding the circuit better

---

## Minutes

11:00 Start of meeting

11:02 Started talking about Bauer's laptops that are designed to be used by kids in Africa. Super sturdy, parts can be replaced, the screen is designed to be functional while minimizing battery use. Bauer said the laptop can last for around 2,000 cycles with 8 hours of use per cycle (estimated about a 5 year lifetime).

11:10 Started talking about what we did for our project. Kaleb did research on audio circuits, specifically Bridge-T Oscillators. He also found some circuits he is going to test for an envelope generator and a voltage controlled amplifier. Reid built a snare drum circuit and looked at some envelope generators/voltage controlled amplifiers. Vega was working on the sequencer and some of the effect modules. He is also determining the best microcontroller. Cole looked at tom/bass drums and did some simulations as well. More details in the action items for the end of this week. 

11:25 Talked briefly about the type of capacitors we should use when building the circuits



## Action Items

Vega:

- [ ] Figure out bus structure and choose μC for sequncer - by Friday, September 10th 2021

Kaleb:

- [ ] Simulate an Attack/Decay envelope gen - by Friday, September 10th 2021

Reid:

- [ ] Simulate Snare Drum using LiveSpice by Friday, September 10th 2021

Cole:

- [ ] Simulate Toms using LiveSpice - by Friday, September 10th 2021

## Timeline

## Wk 1 - Aug 27

- [x] Basic project idea & outline
- [x] Get group on the same page about how a drum machine works

## Wk 2 - Sep 3

- [x] Project approval
- [x] Get analog circuit simulation working
- [x] Get at least one module simulated

## Wk 3 - Sep 10

- [x] Picking specific modules
  - [x] Sounds
  - [x] Effects
- [ ] Simulations of some drums
- [ ] Basic mock up of UI
  - [ ] Sequencer
  - [ ] Midi clocking

## Wk 4 - Sep 17

- [ ] Order basic parts that we're certain on
- [ ] Simulation of half of the drum modules

## Wk 5 - Sep 24

- [ ] Simulation of other half of drum modules

## Wk 6 - Oct 1

- [ ] Simulation of effect modules

## Wk 7 - Oct 8

- [ ] Protoboard all drum modules

## Wk 8 - Oct 15

- [ ] Protoboard all effect module

## Wk 9 - Oct 22

- [ ] Protoboard sequencer
- [ ] Make PCBs for module edge connectors

## Wk 10 - Oct 29

- [ ] Basic sequencer functionality
- [ ] Finalize bus connections (power, data, trigger, etc.)
  - [ ] sources
  - [ ] effects

## Wk 11 - Nov 5

- [ ] Effect bus functionality
  - [ ] Mixing
- [ ] Sequencer functionality continued

## Wk 12 - Nov 12

- [ ] PCB design of drum modules

## Wk 13 - Nov 19

- [ ] PCB design of effect modules

## Wk 14 - Nov 26

- [ ] PCB design of Sequencer
- [ ] PCB design of Mainboard
- [ ] Order PCBs

## Wk 15 - Dec 3

- [ ] Sequencer software Continued

## Wk 16 - Dec 10

- [ ] Sequencer software continued 

**end of semester**

----